Mother, there was such a big heart catch
these twenty-four hours.
Open your hearts is the point.
Why don't you open your hearts?
Open your hearts.
For frivolous thing, nonsensical thing we open our hearts,
why not for God? Open it!
You are made lotuses, but open the lotus.
The day should come when we should have Shiva's Puja
in England,
let that such a day come!
But to do Shiva's Puja is not a easy thing, you know.
You have already reached one stage - Vishnumaya.
Open it out.
Unless and until you open your heart,
your Brahmarandra cannot be open,
your Sahasrara cannot be open.
What are you worried about - lunch?
I can stop all their watches, if you want!
All right. Now, come along, let's have it.
Better now.
Now go ahead, have your lunch.
After lunch, I am going to be here?
Yes, I am staying here.
You will all go, I will be here.
I told you, I have just stopped their watches!
If you want you can give Me presents
and then there's time for lunch.
What's that?
Shri Mataji, this is a present from Austria,
to express our - we want to thank You for allowing us
to be here, and this is a vase, handmade.
So beautiful!
which should fit
for the figures you got in Brighton, from Austria.
Such a beauty!
Thank you very much, thank you.
Already you have brought such nice music from Austria,
what more do you want to bring?
What's that?
A present from France, Mother.
For what?
with all our love.
For Your blessings.
All right.
Now you'd better open it for Me.
Shri Mataji,
we've made a magazine in Italian language
to let the people know on the
circulations of Your speeches,
and we would like You to bless it.
May God bless you.
Oh, very beautiful vibrations!
Tremendous vibration.
Because they are Your talks in there.
You have translated?
Such vibration. You have?
Oh, wow, such vibrations in this book!
This is the first book of its kind,
first book of My lectures is this one
- apart from our "Nirmala Yoga"
- first book.
Yes, in Italian language.
It's called that, "The White Horse."
And we want to give one copy for each country,
to let them see, if there is the somebody speaking Italian,
we've got here.
And we would like to bring this rakshabandhan from Italy.
All right. What's that?
This is some leaves from our garden.
This is olive tree.
Oh, good, beautiful! What an idea,
to give a branch of olive.
May God bless you.
And they are from my wife, Shri Mataji.
From your wife.
Oh, too much!
They're made out of Gian.
Gian is the town where it's made.
Gian. The name of a town,
where pottery are made.
How do you spell "Gian"?
Gian. G-i-a-n.
Gian.
Really?
Even now they make it?
But this is contemporary.
Beautiful!
Otherwise the French art is going down.
Very surprising!
And what a beauty, what a beauty, just see this now.
This is a flower that is liked by Shri Ganesha.
You've done it?
Beautiful,
Beautiful.
Very well done, thank you very much, thank you.
Such artists we have, I didn't know.
Tremendous!
Thank you very much.
Look at that one.
Oh, I am already eating the French cheese,
and it's such a big one you have given Me
that it will last for the whole year!
Thank you, thank you.
Can you keep it there?
What's that?
This is from Holland.
What is it?
What is it? Again cheese. Thank you.
But you always give Me presents.
From all of you?
Ah, what a beauty, eh?
You have an eye for beauty, I must say, real beauty.
It's beautiful, thank you.
Gregoire's wife has given Me a nice one like this,
I'll keep it with that. Thank you.
Prices are increasing!
Vishnumaya.
Hah, that's Vishnumaya, rainbow is Her sign,
that after rainbow there won't be any
- that's the sign that there won't be any more of lightning.
If you see the rainbow,
there won't be any lightning after that, that is assurance.
Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful, beautiful!
I don't know what to say.
Thank you very much. Beautiful.
May God bless you.
Just bring it this side. Turn it round.
Take out the sari.
Very small, Mother,
Shri Ganesha has found it for me.
Oh, really?
Shri Ganesha cannot be small.
He is very subtle,
He is in every atom and He is everywhere, all right?
Thank you very much.
May God bless you.
You are doing very well, I must say,
in Sahaja Yoga, I am very happy.
What's that?
It's so beautiful, I tell you,
but there's no need to open it.
It's so beautiful.
Beautiful. Just let them have a look.
You have done it?
So beautiful.
It's not Shri Ganesha.
That's an ornament of Shri Ganesh.
It's too expensive a present to be given
- coral and pearls
- that's too much!
All right, I'll cherish it.
Thank you.
With these pujas I am making lot of things, isn't it;
because when you give Me money I can buy something,
still it can work on you,
but what to do with these - becomes
permanent part and parcel of Me.
Thank you.
What's that,
something small again from Brighton?
Hester, really it's great.
Oh, it's too much, too much, too much.
Ah, how symbolic it is, how symbolic.
Again say it loudly, to them.
I say, Shri Mataji,
this is for the Mother of all the brothers and sisters,
the children of the Blossom Times.
And Mother, may we be Your flowers.
Ah, it's too good.
Thank you very much.
It is beautiful, too beautiful.
Mother, with Your grace,
in honor of You I opened my shop
and I called it "Mother's Love."
And yesterday was the grandest opening of my life.
The shop is absolutely beautiful.
Where?
In Seaford, near Brighton.
Oh, I see.
And there is the logo,
and that hopefully will go over the world.
All my things have been designed with Your name on.
Ah, that's a good idea.
"In caring for you and your babies" - great!
I always have this in My mind
that we should have a proper shop,
because it's difficult to get cotton clothes here,
isn't it?
I've got a girl who is making things for me,
but I'd like to also have things made up.
I will try to tell that you come from India
May God bless you.
That's a very good thing you are doing,
may God bless you for that,
as there's not much care for children here, I see;
they require lot of attention.
What's this, again?
All right.
What's that?
From Lausanne?
So beautiful, done so well.
Thank you.
I was not prepared,
but I bring You something
that came from the country I was born in.
From where?
From Africa.
It is a magnetized stone,
and it captures the negative vibrations.
I can see it.
And it was on my neck,
so I hope it isn't too much negativity with it.
Oh, I'll manage.
May God bless you.
What's that?
Shri Mataji, this is a collective effort from the
Sahaja yogis of Munich.
Actually it's more a present for us than for You.
Could You give this Your blessings, please?
What's that?
It's a very good photograph, I think,
very good photograph.
For outsiders, it's very good photograph.
May God bless you.
Very motherly.
Thank you. Thank you very much.
Done?
We are in time?
Something's still there.
(Group of yogis from Belgium and Holland are coming forward)
All right.
I know some of them already.
All right, let's have it.
I'm so happy all of you could come,
that's the main point is.
That's the biggest thing, that you all could come today,
at such a great puja.
And according to Warren,
Brussels and the Holland people have a great humility.
They are very humble people for spirituality,
and the media is also very good.
So I think today's puja was actually
because of you people it was performed.
He says they're very humble people,
the media is very humble,
and there's a kind of humility that really works there.
So now, what is it?
Come along, come along. Dominique, how are you?
What is the file you are carrying?
What is the file?
Who wrote the article, the newspaper people?
They liked it?
Good, good. That's why they were saying
the media is very helpful,
that's it.
What is it?
The translation's from the Flemish,
but not from French, Mother.
It's a nice article.
Very good, very factual reporting, no distortions.
Good. So that's it.
Shri Mataji,
two years ago we have made a photocopy
of Your Lotus Feet in France,
and we're are putting this poster in the shop
for copying, You know.
And they are sending,
they offered this picture of Your Lotus Feet everywhere,
just to show what they can do with the photocopy, and so...
Mother, You know the copy of the Feet
which the French brought to India,
and distributed far and wide - that was the photocopy.
And that same photocopy
now they are using as it as an example
of the promotional material.
The ones with the Feet one on top of another, a little bit?
No, No, Mother.
Which one? Which one? Which Feet?
That's the one with the white carpet,
and you can see.
Everything, all the puja?
With sparkling gold on Your Feet.
Oh, I see, really?
Where did you see that?
In Brussels.
Really?
So these are doing in Brussels?
Yes and I think everywhere,
all over the world for this company,
called - this French company
called "Happy Door Color."
And they're sending from France all over?
I think so, yes.
You see they give an example of their work,
and Your Feet are the example.
Is it?
Such a joke, eh?
Because of My Feet it must have come out well, you see,
so they are using the idea of advertising.
We don't spend there, but we get the advantage!
That's good, My Feet going all over is the best thing!
That's great, really.
There's one outstanding thing, Mother,
about the Belgian and the Holland people,
we're getting people now from the professional levels.
It's really an interesting trend in Sahaja Yoga;
we're not just getting the hippies
and the counter-culture people.
It's a big change.
No, we had some,
but I think they were all very nice, those hippies.
They're nice people, they're so nice, really.
It's such a blessing to be there;
I really, I was very, very happy,
because it worked out very well.
Now you have to introduce, all right?
Let's start, one by one.
This is Henry from Brussels.
Just behind is Jeanine.
She is from Holland, actually,
but she is living in Brussels.
Just four weeks after meeting You,
she explained to new people,
she explained everything about Sahaja Yoga;
it was such a nice program.
And she also translates into French.
She's very good.
Where were you all lost?
I don't know, suddenly
I find all My children coming back to Me!
All right.
He is yoga teacher,
and he wants to slowly come around to Sahaja Yoga.
Yoga is to be used,
but in a particular way.
When the Kundalini rises you have to know
what chakras are catching, and what you have to correct.
Now, unless and until you know what's wrong with you,
then you would not know what to correct.
In the same way, you should know what's wrong with others.
So when you know, then you know
what chakra is to be corrected,
how to correct it, what mantras are to be used.
All it's a big science,
and that's how it has to be understood,
because without the Kundalini
it's not connected science, it's just haphazard.
This is Herman from Antwerp.
Oh, I see. Antwerp I have been before also.
There are some people whom all of us met them,
but it's very difficult to reach them.
They are telephoning to have the book, Gregoire's book.
This Gregoire's book?
You read his book, and that's how you came?
Yes.
There are some people in Belgium everywhere,
but they can't come in the Brussels.
Oh, great!
Good. You wanted to expand.
How is Natalie?
she is coming to India Tour.
Good. That's good, that's good.
India Tour they should make, I think.
How many?
Really? Make it fourteen, thirteen's not a good number!
Try to make it fourteen.
Only from Belgium?
Shri Mataji, I told them that as a little exception
they can register a little late, because...
Yes, they can. You just - you see,
now I am going to be here for some time, they can.
But you see, it's a chance, big chance.
I don't know next year,
I don't know what will be the situation,
because this will be very interesting and good,
the way we have travelled and all that.
I mean, you can't make it anything better than that,
the program is only for three weeks.
You see, it's three weeks' program,
you cannot make it smaller than that, isn't it?
Here is Heidi.
She's great, I tell you.
And her mother from South Africa, also.
You have a great child.
Hello! What is your name?
Marilise.
Shri Mataji, her father was in the Himalayas for some time,
beating his head on the rocks.
Himalaya is here!
But now he has come to Sahaja Yoga.
But they are seekers, you see.
He got quite badly damaged by the lamas,
and he's just suffering a bit at the moment from that.
Terrible people these lamas are.
They are hoping to come to India...
Let's see.
Take it easy. There's no hurry,
but I think if you can manage will be good idea;
because once, he once settles down very well
with Sahaja Yoga, once you go to India.
And because India, it's a very different country,
where we move about
- you won't find that with the lamas or anyone.
Here is Nina.
Actually she is Jewish,
half-Jewish.
She is from Brussels, but she's French.
She speaks French.
Yes, she is looking younger and younger, I think.
Isn't she? She's changed a lot.
All her wrinkles gone
- she looks much younger now.
You'll introduce all of them?
This is Claudine, Daniel's mother.
She is going to the Canary Islands,
and she wants to know more about.
You! You are going to Canary Islands?
And take Sahaja Yoga there.
This Canary Island...
Good place.
Now.
Nina would like to give You something.
Yes, you gave Me - why did you give Me?
I would like to keep with Me, all right?
I'll look after them.
Are they seekers?
They'll come round, then don't you worry.
This is Rene and Anya, from Brussels.
He is a doctor and osteopath.
Osteopath?
He trained in England,
Really?
and he has now been very actively involved
in Sahaja Yoga in Brussels
Yes. Yes.
It's attacking from every side:
muscular problems, bone problems,
so many problems there are of these negative forces,
and which are beyond the reach of medical science.
See, because if it is the Mooladhara,
they don't understand,
they don't understand the innocence part.
So many diseases come from Mooladhara, so many,
and they have no way out for it.
But to take to something like that,
it's difficult for them to get out of that knowledge.
Because this is the Knowledge of the Knowledge,
to get to the essence of it,
you see - and then the whole thing changes,
it's very different.
It works out.
We need osteopaths,
really everybody's Vishuddhi is so bad
that only poor Warren has been correcting
everybody's Vishuddhi.
And now you can do it also!
This is, behind, Marie-Louise and Jack,
What is the name?
from Brussels.
I can't understand your pronunciation.
Marie-Louise, thank you.
Only they say "h" for "r", is it?
For "Marie" they said "Mahi"?
Ah. Good, because you see,
"Marie" is "Mary", becomes "meha";
"meha" means the rain, in Sanskrit.
All right?
So how are you, you are looking much younger too.
How are you feeling?
Imagine,
before going to any other Western countries
I went first to Belgium and to Holland,
in '65.
You remember in Holland they celebrated the hundred years
or something of the gardening or something they had,
in '65, do you know that?
They had a huge exhibition,
that's the thing I saw.
Then I went to Hamburg, and in Hamburg there was
a hundred years of the Hamburg boats.
So they had a huge, big - what you call them,
a celebration
with crackers and a lot of these fireworks
all kinds of things, which was a tremendous idea.
And we all were on a river, on a boat,
and from there we could see these.
I've never seen such fireworks:
things used to break into trees, into flowers, into fruits,
everything - the fire, you know
- they had made it such special ones.
So that happened in Hamburg,
and in Holland I was there for this great exhibition,
miles together, too.
They had fountains and they had little lakes,
and they had little brooks running around and bridges,
beautiful, and all tulips and everything, beautiful
they were - all kinds of flowers.
The best sight one could think of,
the flowers and the garden.
Now...
May God bless you.
This is Chandra.
She has a remarkable story, Mother.
She was born of traditional Indian parents in Holland,
for every intent and purpose of Dutch blood,
Really?
and she's found the reality of Hinduism in Sahaja Yoga.
It's very beautiful.
It's true. No doubt.
You see, as every religion is gone
into some sort of a pickling,
it's only through Sahaja Yoga you'll understand
they were all true, all true.
Every one of them was true, correct,
integrated absolutely one with each other.
But for that you have to become the spirit,
otherwise you cannot understand.
But there's only one thing very good about
the Indian philosophy is that,
that throughout they have talked of nothing else but
spiritual emancipation, and becoming one with the spirit
- nothing else. First is first.
And also about deities they talked.
But Buddha did not talk even that.
He said, "Don't talk of deities, don't talk of God,
don't talk of anyone; just talk of the spirit."
He was so particular that
people should put their attention only to their spirit,
to begin with, then we'll know.
Mahavira did the same - both of them.
So you see, in the philosophy it's not,
sort of, one something;
but main idea of the whole Indian philosophy is
- whether Hindu, Buddhist or Jainist,
or any one of these which were in India
- is that first thing is to get your Self-realization.
And all your life should be built-in on that thing.
For example, it is said your chitta should be controlled.
You should not allow your attention to go
and get involved into everything.
So all these ideas, romantic ideas, this is wrong.
Keep your attention to yourself.
You cannot put your attention
to anything where it is wasted - chitta nirodha.
And when that started, you see,
then only people can see that
when you keep your attention to yourself,
then your attention rises higher, it's not frittering away.
So the essence of all the religions is the same,
it's the Self-realization,
first and foremost thing;
and without that it is what you call "without the life"
- we have "with dead bodies" - nishpran.
Without life if you follow a religion, it has no meaning,
it's all without life.
Nothing wrong with the religion as such,
but it is without life, they have taken out the life now.
Without life it becomes damaged.
Life is Sahaja Yoga.
Yoga is the...
May God bless you.
This is Karina, from The Hague.
Karima?
Oh, we have one Karim there in Holland.
We must locate him.
Do you have the address of Karim?
He's a young boy, realized soul, a great person, I must say.
He used to come here and now his father is in Holland,
who drinks a lot.
He said - I asked him, "How is your father?"
"He's like all other Dutch."
I said, "What do you mean?"
"They all drink a lot."
I said, "No, no, everybody drinks, not only the Dutch."
His mother is French and father is Dutch,
and they were divorced, so he took away the boy.
He comes here sometimes - he's a great soul, Karim.
How it is you found this name "Karima"?
How did they give you this name Karima?
No, my name is Karina.
Oh, I see, it's evolved into that.
"Karima" means "Karim," means "the one who is the creator."
"Karima" is the power of the creator.
From there the word "charisma", "charismatic",
"karishma" comes from there.
This is Henno, from Amsterdam.
Amsterdam - good.
And this is Herman, from The Hague.
Henno's looking to move into the ashram
with the others.
Good. And there's someone there behind.
They already mentioned me, Mother.
Did they? What's your name?
Jack, from Brussels.
Oh, I see, Jack is from Brussels.
Yes, yes, yes, I know. I know Jack.
It's great, isn't it?
So,
you also explain to them that
Indian Tours are very spartan, you see,
as far as the personal comforts are concerned,
and mostly this time it is going to be outside.
Outside in the open we'll have pendals and things like that,
which would be like a scouting camp.
But I think you'll enjoy it because of the nature
and the beauty and the rivers, and everything will be nice
- I hope so.
But main thing is that in that country
you ascend very fast - I have seen it, you see.
It's like nourishes you, it nourishes your being,
it's a fertile land for spiritual ascent,
and many have gained a lot,
so I think it will be a good idea.
Take it easy, there's no hurry.
I am here till the end of this month, definitely;
maybe a little later I might go.
So take it easy. Whatever is possible,
as many as can come I would like to accommodate this time.
All right? May God bless you.
Gradually you settle down into your group,
of such a kind that the same pattern as this people are,
and then we can have a,
what you call a regular sort of thing
as these people have a trust and things like that,
so that it can be settled into a proper way.
Of course, I never see to the trust accounts,
and I don't know what it is doing.
But you have to make some people in charge,
and collect some money for your programs when I come there.
You might need some money for your halls
and things like that, for advertising.
Whatever it is, you make a proper trust like that
and try to make it up now,
then we may legalize it also.
But for the time being you must have some people
who are in charge, and collect some money for programs.
Because I don't need any money, anything,
but of course you will need money,
and because next year I am definitely going to come there
and I'll be there for some time - I hope so.
So you need some money by then.
Last of all,
I would like you all to thank Dr. Warren
for going there on his own,
working it out so well
and helping all of them.
Now, as Bogdan is going to Geneva,
he'll be looking after the whole of Europe,
and he'll be running from one country to another country
- Bogdan, Dr. Bogdan.
And he will be doing all the needful.
Gregoire, of course, is there behind the scenes,
who has done all this;
so he is going to guide Bogdan and everyone there,
and everything is going to be...
Just come here, I can't hear you. Just come here.
I wanted to know that if You could come back...
But if you meditate,
if you put left hand towards photograph,
right hand like that, and it should work out.
No, no, no, no - that you should not do.
So Warren will discuss.
Yes, so Patricia is there, and Antonio can help her.
All right? Good.
I am very happy you are there.
Now, better - she is there,
and try to help her in every way she wants;
because she is doing it well now,
she is understanding everything well.
Anything else?
You are looking so beautiful, all of you.
And Jack, you are in Belgium, isn't it?
That's good.
Yes, I have to go home now.
I think we have done a very successful seminar,
and give a hand to all these people
who have come from Holland and Belgium.
I wanted to give them the...
Warren?
And the photographs are there,
which you all can distribute because there are so many.
So those who are going just now first,
should get first, then gradually...
So I'll take your leave now,
then distribution can be done.
Now, I want to thank you all for inviting Me
to this seminar,
and it was so beautiful.
I hope you won't take anything,
any when I told you about this Vishnumaya.
That's the power, remember, that's the power.
You all have to have that power within you,
so when you speak even a word it acts like a lightning,
and then like a rainbow.
Both are the powers of Vishnumaya.
When rainbow appears,
that means there won't be any lightning,
and when there is lightning there won't be any rainbow.
So you are also the rainbow.
That means you can create
beautiful colors out of one white color,
that's what you are capable of.
So you have to show that magic,
and also you have to show sometimes that lightning effect.
But better take more the lightning inside
and the rainbow outside,
that would be better.
May God bless you all.
May God bless English and the others,
all of you who desire to create Jerusalem in England
- it's very important!
Let the English also understand and be aware of this,
and work it out.
Not only the English Sahaja yogis, but all the English.
May God bless you!